README.md, before:

#Halo Event Connector

###Required package:
Cloudpassage SDK:

Install from pip with `pip install cloudpassage`. If you want to make modifications to the SDK you can install it in editable mode by downloading the source from this github repo, navigating to the top directory within the archive and running pip install -e . (note the . at the end). Or you can visit https://github.com/cloudpassage/cloudpassage-halo-python-sdk to clone it directly from our github.

###Intro - Quick Start
In this repo we have included the pdf documentation for using these scripts to pull Halo event alerts into either Sumo Logic or Splunk - however, you will just as easily be able to integrate Halo events into other popular SIEM tools, such as ArcSight, or with your Syslog infrastructure.

In addition, there are several ways you can run this script to stream event data to your desired target.

For example, let's say, you wanted to setup this script to be run from cron, emit Halo events as key-value name pairs and append them to a file on the local filesystem. And you wanted to pull only those events that were logged since Nov 10, 2012 onwards <b> (The furthrest date Halo can retrieve is 90 days from today) </b>. And instead of using the script defaults where the files are expected to be in the program directory, let's say you wanted to use a different working directory /opt/cloudpassage, for example.

For that, you would do something like this:

Run crontab -e and add a line with the desired schedule, such as the following to run, say every 5 minutes

```
*/5 * * * * /opt/cloudpassage/bin/haloEvents.py --starting=2012-11-10 --auth=/opt/cloudpassage/config/myHaloKeys.auth --configdir=/opt/cloudpassage/config --kvfile=/opt/cloudpassage/logs/eventsInKVFormat >/dev/null 2>&1
```

Save your changes before you exit.

If you are extracting events from more than one (supports up to 5) Halo accounts, you can specify those in your myHaloKeys.auth file like this:

```
key_id_1|secret_1
key_id_2|secret_2
...
...
key_id_5|secret_5
```

```
usage: haloEvents.py [-h] [--starting STARTING] --auth AUTH
                     [--threads THREADS] [--batchsize BATCHSIZE]
                     [--configdir CONFIGDIR] [--jsonfile JSONFILE]
                     [--ceffile CEFFILE] [--leeffile LEEFFILE]
                     [--kvfile KVFILE] [--facility FACILITY] [--cef] [--kv]
                     [--leefsyslog] [--cefsyslog] [--kvsyslog]

Event Connector

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --starting STARTING   Specify start of event time range in ISO-8601 format
  --auth AUTH           Specify a file containing CloudPassage Halo API keys -
                        Key ID and Key secret pairs (up to 5)
  --threads THREADS     Start num threads each reading pages of events in
                        parallel
  --batchsize BATCHSIZE
                        Specify a limit for page numbers, after which we use
                        since
  --configdir CONFIGDIR
                        Specify directory for configration files (saved
                        timestamps)
  --jsonfile JSONFILE   Write events in raw JSON format to file with given
                        filename
  --ceffile CEFFILE     Write events in CEF (ArcSight) format to file with
                        given filename
  --leeffile LEEFFILE   Write events in LEEF (QRadar) format to file with
                        given filename
  --kvfile KVFILE       Write events as key/value pairs to file with given
                        filename
  --facility FACILITY   --facility=<faility,priority> Facility options:auth
                        authpriv cron daemon kern local0 local1 local2local3
                        local4 local5 local6 local7 lpr mail news sysloguser
                        uucp Priority options: alert crit debug emerg errinfo
                        notice warning [default: user,info]
  --cef                 Write events in CEF (ArcSight) format to standard
                        output (terminal)
  --kv                  Write events as key/value pairs to standard output
                        (terminal)
  --leefsyslog          Write events in LEEF (QRadar) format to syslog server
  --cefsyslog           Write events in CEF (ArcSight) format to syslog server
  --kvsyslog            Write events as key/value pairs to local syslog daemon
```
### Halo Event Connector on Linux

1. Install Python 2.7.11 or newer (https://www.python.org/downloads) 

2. Once Python is installed, install the necessary Python modules

```
pip install python-dateutil
pip install pytz
```

3. Download latest CloudPassage Halo API SDK (https://github.com/cloudpassage/cloudpassage-halo-python-sdk/tree/develop). 

4. Install the SDK via cli by navigating to the downloaded expanded folder location and running 

```
pip install .
```

5. Download the Halo Event Connector (https://github.com/mong2/haloEvent_connector)

6. Create the haloEvents.auth file

7. Run the connector (currently must specify a starting cli parameter)

```
python halo_events.py --auth=haloEvents.py --starting=YYYY-MM-DD
```

### Halo Event Connector on Windows

1. Install Python 2.7.11 or newer (https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/)

2. Add python installation folder to system PATH environmental variable or create PYTHONPATH environmental variable and set installation folder location as follows (C:\Python27\lib;C:\Python27)

3. Once Python is installed, install the necessary Python modules

```
python -m pip install python-dateutil
python -m pip install pytz
```

4. Download latest CloudPassage Halo API SDK (https://github.com/cloudpassage/cloudpassage-halo-python-sdk/tree/develop). 

5. Install the SDK via cli by navigating to the downloaded expanded folder location and running 

```
python -m pip install .
```

6. Download the Halo Event Connector (https://github.com/mong2/haloEvent_connector)

7. Create the haloEvents.auth file

8. Run the connector (currently must specify a starting cli parameter)

```
python halo_events.py --auth=haloEvents.py --starting=YYYY-MM-DD
```

#### Remote Syslog Windows
* Navigate to `configs/portal.yml` you can specify the syslog host there via
  
  windows_syslog_host:
  windows_syslog_port:


<!---
#CPTAGS:community-supported integration archive
#TBICON:images/python_icon.png
-->

Commit message:

Update readme with contact and license information

README.md, after:

#Halo Event Connector v1.8

Author: toolbox@cloudpassage.com

###Required package:
Cloudpassage SDK:

Install from pip with `pip install cloudpassage`. If you want to make modifications to the SDK you can install it in editable mode by downloading the source from this github repo, navigating to the top directory within the archive and running pip install -e . (note the . at the end). Or you can visit https://github.com/cloudpassage/cloudpassage-halo-python-sdk to clone it directly from our github.

###Intro - Quick Start
In this repo we have included the pdf documentation for using these scripts to pull Halo event alerts into either Sumo Logic or Splunk - however, you will just as easily be able to integrate Halo events into other popular SIEM tools, such as ArcSight, or with your Syslog infrastructure.

In addition, there are several ways you can run this script to stream event data to your desired target.

For example, let's say, you wanted to setup this script to be run from cron, emit Halo events as key-value name pairs and append them to a file on the local filesystem. And you wanted to pull only those events that were logged since Nov 10, 2012 onwards <b> (The furthrest date Halo can retrieve is 90 days from today) </b>. And instead of using the script defaults where the files are expected to be in the program directory, let's say you wanted to use a different working directory /opt/cloudpassage, for example.

For that, you would do something like this:

Run crontab -e and add a line with the desired schedule, such as the following to run, say every 5 minutes

```
*/5 * * * * /opt/cloudpassage/bin/haloEvents.py --starting=2012-11-10 --auth=/opt/cloudpassage/config/myHaloKeys.auth --configdir=/opt/cloudpassage/config --kvfile=/opt/cloudpassage/logs/eventsInKVFormat >/dev/null 2>&1
```

Save your changes before you exit.

If you are extracting events from more than one (supports up to 5) Halo accounts, you can specify those in your myHaloKeys.auth file like this:

```
key_id_1|secret_1
key_id_2|secret_2
...
...
key_id_5|secret_5
```

```
usage: haloEvents.py [-h] [--starting STARTING] --auth AUTH
                     [--threads THREADS] [--batchsize BATCHSIZE]
                     [--configdir CONFIGDIR] [--jsonfile JSONFILE]
                     [--ceffile CEFFILE] [--leeffile LEEFFILE]
                     [--kvfile KVFILE] [--facility FACILITY] [--cef] [--kv]
                     [--leefsyslog] [--cefsyslog] [--kvsyslog]

Event Connector

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --starting STARTING   Specify start of event time range in ISO-8601 format
  --auth AUTH           Specify a file containing CloudPassage Halo API keys -
                        Key ID and Key secret pairs (up to 5)
  --threads THREADS     Start num threads each reading pages of events in
                        parallel
  --batchsize BATCHSIZE
                        Specify a limit for page numbers, after which we use
                        since
  --configdir CONFIGDIR
                        Specify directory for configration files (saved
                        timestamps)
  --jsonfile JSONFILE   Write events in raw JSON format to file with given
                        filename
  --ceffile CEFFILE     Write events in CEF (ArcSight) format to file with
                        given filename
  --leeffile LEEFFILE   Write events in LEEF (QRadar) format to file with
                        given filename
  --kvfile KVFILE       Write events as key/value pairs to file with given
                        filename
  --facility FACILITY   --facility=<faility,priority> Facility options:auth
                        authpriv cron daemon kern local0 local1 local2local3
                        local4 local5 local6 local7 lpr mail news sysloguser
                        uucp Priority options: alert crit debug emerg errinfo
                        notice warning [default: user,info]
  --cef                 Write events in CEF (ArcSight) format to standard
                        output (terminal)
  --kv                  Write events as key/value pairs to standard output
                        (terminal)
  --leefsyslog          Write events in LEEF (QRadar) format to syslog server
  --cefsyslog           Write events in CEF (ArcSight) format to syslog server
  --kvsyslog            Write events as key/value pairs to local syslog daemon
```
### Halo Event Connector on Linux

1. Install Python 2.7.11 or newer (https://www.python.org/downloads) 

2. Once Python is installed, install the necessary Python modules

```
pip install python-dateutil
pip install pytz
```

3. Download latest CloudPassage Halo API SDK (https://github.com/cloudpassage/cloudpassage-halo-python-sdk/tree/develop). 

4. Install the SDK via cli by navigating to the downloaded expanded folder location and running 

```
pip install .
```

5. Download the Halo Event Connector (https://github.com/mong2/haloEvent_connector)

6. Create the haloEvents.auth file

7. Run the connector (currently must specify a starting cli parameter)

```
python halo_events.py --auth=haloEvents.py --starting=YYYY-MM-DD
```

### Halo Event Connector on Windows

1. Install Python 2.7.11 or newer (https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/)

2. Add python installation folder to system PATH environmental variable or create PYTHONPATH environmental variable and set installation folder location as follows (C:\Python27\lib;C:\Python27)

3. Once Python is installed, install the necessary Python modules

```
python -m pip install python-dateutil
python -m pip install pytz
```

4. Download latest CloudPassage Halo API SDK (https://github.com/cloudpassage/cloudpassage-halo-python-sdk/tree/develop). 

5. Install the SDK via cli by navigating to the downloaded expanded folder location and running 

```
python -m pip install .
```

6. Download the Halo Event Connector (https://github.com/mong2/haloEvent_connector)

7. Create the haloEvents.auth file

8. Run the connector (currently must specify a starting cli parameter)

```
python halo_events.py --auth=haloEvents.py --starting=YYYY-MM-DD
```

#### Remote Syslog Windows
* Navigate to `configs/portal.yml` you can specify the syslog host there via
  
  windows_syslog_host:
  windows_syslog_port:



#### License

Copyright (c) 2017, CloudPassage, Inc.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of the CloudPassage, Inc. nor the
      names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
      derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL CLOUDPASSAGE, INC. BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED ANDON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
<!---
#CPTAGS:community-supported integration archive
#TBICON:images/python_icon.png
-->
